# Credit Card Fraud Detection
In this project I build machine learning models to identify fraud in European credit card transactions. I also make several data visualizations to reveal patterns and structure in the data.

The [dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud), hosted on Kaggle, includes credit card transactions made in September 2013 by European cardholders. The data contains 284,807 transactions that occurred over a two-day period, of which 492 (0.17%) are fraudulent. Each transaction has 30 features, all of which are numerical. The features `V1, V2, ..., V28` are the result of a PCA transformation. To protect confidentiality, background information on these features is not available. The `Time` feature contains the time elapsed since the first transaction, and the `Amount` feature contains the transaction amount. The response variable, `Class`, is 1 in the case of fraud, and 0 otherwise.

I was able to accurately identify fraudulent transactions using a random forest model. I also calculated mutual information values to identify the variables most correlated with fraud. On a test set consisting of 20% of the original data, the predictions from the random forest model had an F1 score of 0.869 and a Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) of 0.869. I also trained logistic regression and linear support vector classifier models, but these models underperformed the random forest. To improve a particular model, I optimized hyperparameters via a grid search with 5-fold cross-validation.
